Revamp Android deployment docs (#256)
game-ci/documentation: docs/github/v2/15-deployment/android.md

# Deploy to Google Play

> This guide is intended to help with automating Android builds to upload to the Play Store. If you are planning to use an alternate distribution method, such as a third-party beta test service or manually sideloading an APK, you do not need this guide. Setting up the [unity-builder](https://game.ci/docs/github/builder) action with a `targetPlatform` of `Android` should produce a functioning APK. However, if you are intending to distribute your game on the Play Store, either for public distribution or a beta track, this guide is for you.

Author: Good catch, I agree this paragraph should be a bit more concise! Going to spend a little more time thinking about how to best condense it.

> This guide is intended to help with automating Android builds to upload to the Play Store. If you are planning to use an alternate distribution method, such as a third-party beta test service or manually sideloading an APK, you do not need this guide. Setting up the [unity-builder](https://game.ci/docs/github/builder) action with a `targetPlatform` of `Android` should produce a functioning APK. However, if you are intending to distribute your game on the Play Store, either for public distribution or a beta track, this guide is for you.

Author: This is now shorter!

### 1- Install Fastlane

[Fastlane](https://docs.fastlane.tools/getting-started/ios/setup/) is a tool that can facilitate building and submitting your Android apps to Google, and is the easiest way to deploy your Unity project to Android for Play Store distribution.

> To configure Fastlane for your GitHub Actions workflow runners, you will need to locally set up a `Gemfile` and `Fastfile` within your project. A `Gemfile` specifies what Ruby dependencies are needed to set up and run Fastlane (which is written in Ruby), and a `Fastfile` will be how you configure your iOS build settings. We will set up the `Gemfile` now, and the `Fastfile` in a later step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure Fastlane for your GitHub Actions workflow runners, you will need to locally set up a `Gemfile` and `Fastfile` within your project. A `Gemfile` specifies what Ruby dependencies are needed to set up and run Fastlane (which is written in Ruby), and a `Fastfile` will be how you configure your Android deployment settings. We will set up the `Gemfile` now, and the `Fastfile` in a later step.
```

```bash
gem install bundler
```

From there, create a file called `Gemfile` in the root of your git repository with following content:

```ruby
# Gemfile
source "https://rubygems.org"
gem "fastlane"
```

Then run `bundle install`. This will create an additional `Gemfile.lock` file in the root of your project.

Commit both `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` to your repo.

### 2- Create a Google Play Service Account

To programmatically access the Google Play Console, you will need a dedicated Google Play service account with API access.

Follow the ["Setup" section of the Fastlane Supply documentation](https://docs.fastlane.tools/actions/supply/) to create a service account.

After the last step, it will tell you to test the connection to the Google Play Store, and then add your JSON file path to your Appfile. You can do the first step if you would like (you may need to run `bundle exec fastlane` instead of just `fastlane`), but don't worry about the Appfile, as we will be be creating that in the next step.

> Instead, create a Repository Secret in your GitHub repository by going to Settings -> Secrets and clicking the "New repository secret" button in the top-right. It should be titled `GOOGLE_PLAY_KEY_FILE` and its value should be the plaintext contents of the download JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, create a Repository Secret in your GitHub repository by going to Settings -> Secrets and clicking the "New repository secret" button in the top-right. It should be titled `GOOGLE_PLAY_KEY_FILE` and its value should be the plaintext contents of the downloaded JSON file.
```

```ruby
# fastlane/Fastfile
platform :android do
  desc "Upload a new Android version to the production Google Play Store"
  lane :production do
    upload_to_play_store(track: 'production', release_status: 'completed', aab: "#{ENV['ANDROID_BUILD_FILE_PATH']}")
  end

  desc "Upload a new Android internal version to Google Play"
  lane :internal do
    upload_to_play_store(track: 'internal', release_status: 'completed', aab: "#{ENV['ANDROID_BUILD_FILE_PATH']}")
  end
end
```

If you would like to upload to other tracks (namely, `alpha` or `beta`), you can create additional lanes that look the same as the `:production` and `:internal` lanes except for the name and `track` parameter. Additionally, if you want to create draft releases (which will be necessary until you've manually pushed at least one build through the manual submission process), you will want to switch `release_status` from `completed` to `draft`.

### 6- Add jobs to your GitHub workflow

The following workflow establishes two jobs. The first builds your game into an AAB file, and the second uploads that generated bundle to the Play Store.

> If you instead intend to manually distribute your game outside the Play Store as an APK, remove the `androidAppBundle` flag from the `with` section of the `game-ci/unity-builder@v2` action in the workflow. You can also remove the `androidKeystoreName`, `androidKeystoreBase64`, `androidKeyStorePass`, `androidKeyaliasName`, and `androidKeyaliasPass` properties. From there, you'll want to remove the entire `releaseToGooglePlay` job. If you just want to download the APK, it will be available in the "artifacts" section of a completed workflow run, or you can add a new job that performs whatever custom upload logic you'd like.

Reviewer: I don't think we need this paragraph, as it has already been established that this guide is specifically for deployment to the Google Play Store.

Author: Totally agree, removed
